Introduction to python and Basic Data types

youtube link - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KrToaEvDzdk

Python Basics
Python is a case-sensitive language.
It means Python differentiates between upper and lower case alphabets.
For example, Print and print are two different words for Python.
Print is a just a word and not a command, whereas print is a valid command in
Python.

String literals
The text enclosed within quotes forms a string literal in Python. For
example, "a","aa",'a' are all string literals in Python. A string literal is
a sequence of characters within quotes (single, double or triple) .
One can form a string literal by enclosing text in both forms of quotes -
single or double.

Escape sequences
Python also allows non graphic characters in string values. Non
graphic characters are those which cannot be typed from the
keyboard directly, example backspace, tab, carriage return etc.
These non graphic characters can be represented by using escape
sequences. An escape sequence is represented by a \ (backslash)
followed by one or more characters.

operators
They are tokens which trigger some computation when applied
to variables or other objects in an expression.
Variables and objects to which the computation applies are
called operands. So an operator requires operands to work on.

comments
Comments are used in Python program to allow the programmer to
insert small explanatory notes or description to enhance readability or
understandability of the program.
Python Interpreter does not execute the code given as comment.
Comments can be given as a Single Line Comment (#) or a MultiLine
Comment (''' ''')

input statement
In Python, data is input from the user during script execution using input()
function.
The input() function takes one argument (called prompt). This argument is
generally a string prompting the user to enter a value. During execution,
input() shows the prompt to the user and waits for the user to input a value
from the keyboard. When the user enters value from the keyboard, input()
returns this value to the script. In almost all cases, we store this value in a
variable.

Data and DataTypes
Data can be of many types viz. Character, integer, real, string etc.
Numbers without fractions indicate integer data, number with
fractions represent real data, True and False indicate boolean data,
anything enclosed within quotes indicate string data in Python. Since
the data to be dealt with are of many types, a programming language
must be capable to handle all types of data.

int - These are whole numbers, having no fractional parts. They are numeric values
with no decimal point. They can be positive or negative.
float - A number containing a decimal point or an exponent sign represents float data
type. The float data type can include both positive and negative floating point
numbers. 

complex - Mathematically, a complex number is a number of the form A+Bi, where A
represents the real part and i is the imaginary number. The real and imaginary part
of a complex number are floating point number.
Python represents complex number using complex data type by specifying the
number in the form real + imag j i.e the imaginary part of the number in Python is
represented by j (instead of i).

string - A string data type lets you hold string data i.e, any number of valid characters
enclosed in a set of quotation marks. A string can hold any type of known characters
ie., letters, numbers and special characters.
A Python string is a sequence of characters and each character can be individually
accessed using its index. Strings are stored as individual characters in contiguous
locations, with two way index for each location.

List - represents a list of comma separated values of any data type between
square brackets ([ ]).

Tuple - It is a ordered collection of elements that cannot be changed i.e.
they are not modifiable (immutable). Tuples are group of comma
separated values of any data type within parentheses().

NOne - None is a special data type with a single value. It is used to signify the absence of
value in a situation. None supports no special operations, and it is neither False nor 0
(zero).

Mutale and Immutable -
Variables whose values can be changed after they are created and
assigned are called mutable.
Variables whose values cannot be changed after they are created and
assigned are called immutable. In Python, the following data types are
immutable :
integers, floating point numbers, string, boolean, tuples
When an attempt is made to update the value of an immutable
variable, the old variable is destroyed and a new variable is created by
the same name in memory.
Python data types can be classified into mutable and immutable.





